# 2.2 Some basic ruby
```ruby
def say_goodnight(name)
   result = "Good night, " + name
   return result
end
puts say_goodnight("John-Boy")
puts say_goodnight("Mary-Ellen")
```
* We do not need to use _semicolon_ as long as we put each statement in a sepearate line. 
  In the above example we did not have to declare the variable result it __came into existence__ when we assigned it.
* Paranthesis are not required for method parameters put due to precedence and it is difficult to know which argument goes to which call. So use it in all but simplest cases.

* __String literals__ are sequence of characters between single quotes and double quotes. 
The difference between above two is the amount of preprocessing ruby does for that literal.
  ```ruby
   puts "And good night,\n Grandma"
  ```
* Expression interpolation in double quoted string, the sequence **#{expression}** is replaced by expression.

##### The above function can be replaced as following  
  ```ruby
  def say_goodnight(name)
    result = "Good nigh, #{name}"
  end
  puts say_goodnight('Pa')
  ```
* Arbitarily ```complex expressions``` are allowed in #{...}

###### Using capitalize in #{}
  ```ruby
  def say_goodnight(name)
    result = "Good night, #{name.capitalize}"
    returnr result
  end
  ```
W* e can simplify the above method even simpler as the value returned by a method in ruby is the last expression it executes there is no need to store the value in result.
```ruby
def say_goodnigh(name)
  "Good night, #{name.capitalize}"
end
```

* In ruby the **_first character_** of a name indicates how the name is used.
* Local variables, method names and method parameters should all start with lower case letters, or an underscore.
* Global variables are prefixed with a $, dollar sign.
* An instance variable begins with an @ sign.
* Class variables start with two @@ sign.
* Class names, Module names, Constants must start with an upper case letter.
* Character following @ should not be a number.
* By convention Mutli word instance variables are written with underscore between the words and multi word class names are written in MixedCase, CamelCase.


