# 2.3 Arrays and Hashes

Arrays and hashes are indexed collections. (Cute definition)

Arrays are indexed using integers and hashes can be indexed using any object as a key. 

Array and Hash can hold objects of differing types.

Not like int arr[] in c in which all the array elements must be integers.

In ruby a = [1, "a string", ["an array", "of string"]] an array can contain different objects of different types

An array literal is a set of elements between square brackets. We can initialize an array using an array literal.
Ruby array indices start at zero. Not sure why this convention is followed everywhere!!!

a = [1, 'cat', 3.14]

puts "the first element is #{a[0]}"

a[2] = nil
puts "the array is not #{a.inspect}"

In ruby nil is an object just like any other object it just represents nothing.


Creating array of words can be painful some time as follows with all the quotes and commas

a = [ 'ant', 'bee', 'cat', 'dog', 'elk']

a[0]
a[3] 

Ruby has a shortcut %w just for such cases

a = %w{ ant bee cat dog elk }


Hashes have keys and values. Keys must be unique in hashes. For example.

inst_sellection = {
  'cello' => 'string',
  'clarinet' => 'woodwind',
  'drum' => 'percussion',
  'oboe' => 'woodwind',
  'trumpet' => 'brass',
  'violin' => 'string'
}

The thing before the => (hash rocket) are called keys and after => are called values.

A unique value of oboe is only valid as keys must be unique like indices in the array

Keys and values can be arbitary objects.

p inst_selectoin['drum']
p inst_selection['cello']
p inst_selection['basson']

A hash by default returns nil when a key it does not contain is being accessed

We can override the default nil by doing the following consider the case when we want to calculate the count of words.

histogram = Hash.new(0)
histogram['ruby'] # => 0 
histogram['ruby'] = histogram['ruby'] + 1
histogram['ruby'] # => 1



